# What's Stomata?

A javascript based game using the Phaser3 game engine that I started to make. The idea was this could be used potentially for science outreach events to introduce people to the concept of stomata and plant gas exchange control. Additionally, this was a project I started to learn javascript . Although incomplete, here is a rough idea of what this game would have become. All of the code is here, so I welcome any people who want to take this further.

## Gameplay Aims
Balance a plants uptake of CO2 against water loss by controlling the opening and closing stomata <br />
Accumulate as much biomass as possible <br />
If the water levels go below 0 the game ends <br />

## Mechanics
ATP is generated by using up CO2 <br />
You can increase the amount of ATP generated per CO2 molecule by upgrading ATP production <br />
You can use accumulated ATP to generate more stomata, upgrade plant processes, water stomata etc... <br />

## Future Ideas
Currently the game mechanics have not been optimised (a lot of balancing is required) <br />
Add night and day (close stomata at night, open in the day - unless a CAM plant?) <br />
Add more potential upgrades. There are lots of potential directions in which this could go <br />
Add a grass stomata element with subsiduary cells, faster dynamics etc... <br />
Add better instructions <br />

## Disclaimer
Having had no major exposure to the language prior to this there were points where I have likely not coded it in the most efficient/logical way. However, I've tried to comment what each bit of the code is doing. My defense is this was my first attempt!

## Play the current version of the game
https://apridgeon.github.io/WhatStomata/




